---
title: It Begins
tags: post
category: earthscape
layout: post
comments: true
permalink: blogs/earthscape/It-Begins
---

Today marks the start of the EarthScape project, a small dungeon exploring adventure game we plan to have finished in about a month and a half. The team's day was fairly slow; not much was learnt besides creation of a PSM project with Monogame support. We created a PSM project that linked with our Visual Studio project's .cs files, so that we could build both from the same files, optimising and trivialising the difficulties of developing cross platform for the PC and Vita.

In order to add support for Monogame, it's source files are required (preferably from the github repository). These files should then go in an easily accessible place from the PSM project, we put ours in a folder within the project itself. Running Protobuild.exe creates solutions which PSM can then use, basically giving it access to the entire Monogame library. However, only those compatible with the PS Vita were required so we added solutions MonoGame.Framework/MonoGame.Framework.PSMobile.csproj and ThirdParty/Lidgren.Network/Lidgren.Network.PSMobile.csproj. After this we went to our main solution's references and checked the newly included projects, giving us access to the MonoGame framework within PSM.

Including files for use in the PSM project is straightforward, but has an important step to note. On adding the files to the project a box will come up asking how they should be included. The option to pick is to link them to the project. This allows both PSM and Visual Studio to read and write from the same file on the computer, streamlining our cross-platform development and preventing our directories from getting inundated with far too many files.

Using content such as sounds and textures with PSM, they must be converted to the .xnb format. This is just as straightforward, as XNB-Builder is available and will do just that.

After setting up our projects with PSM, we spent the last bit of the day getting used to Perforce inconsistencies and setting a basic folder structure to put all our .cs files in. Understanding how to resolve our inconsistencies is vital, because with all the editing of the main Game.cs, we will most certainly be having them most, if not every, day. The basic folder structure just lets us sort things out neatly, as they should be :).

Spending the whole day on this I feel was fairly important, even though we might be damaging our schedule. It's worth understanding everything we can about merging MonoGame and PSM, as it will save us a whole lot of time and headache if we can solve potential problems swiftly. The planning and design that have led us up to this point are fairly important, but we must be meticulous for errors, especially at the start of the project. A project like this needs a solid base to build off of.